Guide multi app solution (#1085)
Altinn/altinn-studio-docs: content/app/guides/multi-app-solution/instructions/_index.en.md

---
title: Instructions for making a multi-app solution in Altinn
linktitle: Instructions
description: Explanations of how to go about when creating a general multi-app solution
weight: 20
aliases:

- /app/multi-app-solution/instructions/

---

## Prerequisites

> Before continue reading the technical implementation details, please make sure the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting on the technical implementation, please make sure the
```

required prerequisites are met.

### Functional Prerequisites

> 1. The app-developer must have access to create, develop and deploy applications owned by an organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The app developer must have access to create, develop and deploy applications owned by an organization.
```

> 2. Existing basic Altinn form where the content of the data model is assessed against the intended data flow between

Reviewer: This point was a bit complex. Is the main point to have Application A already up and running or that they should have though about which data points they want to forward? 

Could we consider: 
An existing Altinn form (application A) of which identified parts of the data is intended to be forwarded to application B.

Author: The intention of the point was to emphasie that they have given some thought to the data flow, yes.

Maybe an even clearer formulation could be:
An existing Altinn form (application A) where the data that is intended forwarded to application B is identified.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Go for it :)

   application A and application B.
3. It should be clear who the instance owners are, meaning what roles and access they acquire.

Does the end user of application A have the required roles or delegated accesses to instantiate application B on behalf
of the intended
recipient?

> - If yes, no maskinporten integration is required.

Reviewer: This does not tell the user much. Is what we want to communicate here that if yes, skip technical prerequisites? if so let's state that instead. If not, let's reference the concrete parts of the documentation that does not apply to them.

Author: Agree. Maybe we can simply remove all the lines L24-L30? I guess the *-sentence gives the reader the same information? 🤔

Reviewer: yup, let's remove this section.

- If no, maskinporten integration is required in order for the
  application to impersonate the app owner, with rights to instantiate on behalf of all parties,

### Technical Prerequisites

1. Your applications are using version 8 or newer of the Altinn nugets.
2. The organization possesses an already existing Maskinporten client with the altinn-specific
   scopes; `altinn:serviceowner/instances.read` and
   `altinn:serviceowner/instances.write`*
3. An integration between the application(s) and the clients in Maskinporten. This must be done in the application(s)
   that are going to send requests to another application, which requests needs to be authorized by the application
   owner.*

If step 2 and 3 of the technical requirements are missing see
section [Maskinporten-App Integration](../../maskinporten-app-integration)

> \* _If the end user of application A have the required roles to instantiate application B on behalf of the intended

Reviewer: does this apply to all three points? If so, let's start the section with this text instead of ending the section with it. Maybe in a info box?

Author: Only the second two

Reviewer: might still be useful to add it as an info in the beginning of the section.
That way, they donæt even read the points.
